First draft of the sign up guide (#5)
excid3/rails: guides/source/sign_up_and_settings.md

We can then use this method at the top of `SignUpsController`.

```ruby#2
class SignUpsController < ApplicationController
  unauthenticated_access_only

  # ...
end
```

### Rate Limiting Sign Up

Our application will be accessible on the internet so we're bound to have malicious bots and users trying to spam our application. We can add rate limiting to sign up to slow down anyone submitting too many requests.

Rails makes this easy with the [`rate_limit`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionController/RateLimiting/ClassMethods.html) method in controllers.

```ruby#3
class SignUpsController < ApplicationController
  unauthenticated_only_access
  rate_limit to: 10, within: 3.minutes, only: :create, with: -> { redirect_to sign_up_path, alert: "Try again later." }

  # ...
end
```

This will block any form submissions that happen more than 10 times within 3 minutes.

Editing Passwords
-----------------

Now that users can login, let's create all the usual places that users would expect to update their profile, password, email address, and other settings.

### Using Namespaces

> The Rails authentication generator already created `app/controllers/passwords_controller.rb` and uses this controller for password resets. This means we need to use a different controller for editing passwords of authenticated users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Rails authentication generator already created at `app/controllers/passwords_controller.rb` is the controller for password resets. This means we need to use a different controller for editing passwords of authenticated users.
```

To prevent conflicts, we can use a feature called **namespaces**. A namespace organizes routes, controllers, and views into folders and helps prevent conflicts like our two passwords controllers.

We'll create a namespace called "Settings" to separate out the user and store settings from the rest of our application.

In `config/routes.rb` we can add the Settings namespace along with a resource for editing passwords:

```ruby
namespace :settings do
  resource :password, only: [:show, :update]
end
```

> This will generate a route for `/settings/password` for editing the current user's password and is separate from the password resets routes at `/password`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will generate a route for `/settings/password` for editing the current user's password which is separate from the password resets routes at `/password`.
```
Would it be "password resets routes" or "password reset route"?

### Adding the Namespaced Passwords Controller & View

Namespaces also move controllers into a matching module in Ruby. This controller will be in a `settings` folder to match the namespace.

Let's create the controller at `app/controllers/settings/passwords_controller.rb` and start with the `show` action.

```ruby
class Settings::PasswordsController < ApplicationController
  def show
  end
end
```

> Views also move to a `settings` folder so we can create `app/views/settings/passwords/show.html.erb` for this action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Views also move to a `settings` folder so let's create the folder and view at `app/views/settings/passwords/show.html.erb` for this action.
```

```erb
<h1>Password</h1>

<%= form_with model: Current.user, url: settings_password_path do |form| %>
  <% if form.object.errors.any? %>
    <div><%= form.object.errors.full_messages.first %></div>
  <% end %>

  <div>
    <%= form.label :password_challenge %>
    <%= form.password_field :password_challenge, required: true, autocomplete: "current-password" %>
  </div>

  <div>
    <%= form.label :password %>
    <%= form.password_field :password, required: true, autocomplete: "new-password" %>
  </div>

  <div>
    <%= form.label :password_confirmation %>
    <%= form.password_field :password_confirmation, required: true, autocomplete: "new-password" %>
  </div>

  <div>
    <%= form.submit "Update password" %>
  </div>
<% end %>
```

> We've set the `url:` argument to ensure the form submits to our namespaced route and is processed by the `Settings::PasswordsController`. Passing `model: Current.user` also tells `form_with` to submit a `PATCH` request to process the form with the `update` action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've set the `url:` argument to ensure the form submits to our namespaced route and is processed by the `Settings::PasswordsController`. Passing `model: Current.user` also tells `form_with` to submit a `PATCH` request to process the form with the `update` action we'll create in the next step.
```

### Safely Updating Passwords

> Let's add the `update` action to the controller now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's add that `update` action to the controller now.
```

```ruby#5-17
class Settings::PasswordsController < Settings::BaseController
  def show
  end

  def update
    if Current.user.update(password_params)
      redirect_to settings_profile_path, status: :see_other, notice: "Your password has been updated."
    else
      render :show, status: :unprocessable_entity
    end
  end

  private
    def password_params
      params.expect(user: [ :password, :password_confirmation, :password_challenge ]).with_defaults(password_challenge: "")
    end
end
```

> For security, we need to ensure that only the user is the only one who can update their password. The `has_secure_password` method in our `User` model provides this attribute. If `password_challenge` is not `nil`, it will validate the password challenge against the password in the database to confirm it matches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For security, we need to ensure that the user is the only one who can update their password. The `has_secure_password` method in our `User` model provides this attribute. If `password_challenge` is not `nil`, it will validate the password challenge against the password in the database to confirm it matches.
```

Removed a second 'only'.

    <%= form.password_field :password, required: true, autocomplete: "new-password" %>
  </div>

  <div>
    <%= form.label :password_confirmation %>
    <%= form.password_field :password_confirmation, required: true, autocomplete: "new-password" %>
  </div>

  <div>
    <%= form.submit "Update password" %>
  </div>
<% end %>
```

We've set the `url:` argument to ensure the form submits to our namespaced route and is processed by the `Settings::PasswordsController`. Passing `model: Current.user` also tells `form_with` to submit a `PATCH` request to process the form with the `update` action.

### Safely Updating Passwords

Let's add that `update` action to the controller now.

```ruby#5-17
class Settings::PasswordsController < Settings::BaseController
  def show
  end

  def update
    if Current.user.update(password_params)
      redirect_to settings_profile_path, status: :see_other, notice: "Your password has been updated."
    else
      render :show, status: :unprocessable_entity
    end
  end

  private
    def password_params
      params.expect(user: [ :password, :password_confirmation, :password_challenge ]).with_defaults(password_challenge: "")
    end
end
```

> For security, we need to ensure that the user is the only one who can update their password. The `has_secure_password` method in our `User` model provides this attribute. If `password_challenge` is not `nil`, it will validate the password challenge against the password in the database to confirm it matches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For security, we need to ensure that the user is the only one who can update their password. The `has_secure_password` method in our `User` model provides this attribute. If `password_challenge` is present, it will validate the password challenge against the user's current password in the database to confirm it matches.
```

> A crafty attacker could try deleting the `password_challenge` field in the browser to bypass this validation. To ensure this validation always runs, we use `.with_defaults(password_challenge: "")` to set a default value even if the `password_challenge` parameter was missing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A malicious user could try deleting the `password_challenge` field in the browser to bypass this validation. To prevent this and ensure the validation always runs, we use `.with_defaults(password_challenge: "")` to set a default value even if the `password_challenge` parameter is missing.
```

<%= render template: "layouts/application" %>
```

In the settings layout, we're providing HTML for the sidebar and telling Rails to render the application layout as the parent.

We need to modify the application layout to render the content from the nested layout using `yield(:content)`.

```erb#11,23
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <%# ... %>
  </head>

  <body>
    <div class="notice"><%= notice %></div>
    <div class="alert"><%= alert %></div>

    <nav class="navbar">
      <%= link_to "Home", root_path %>
      <% if authenticated? %>
        <%= link_to "Settings", settings_root_path %>
        <%= button_to "Log out", session_path, method: :delete %>
      <% else %>
        <%= link_to "Sign Up", sign_up_path %>
        <%= link_to "Login", new_session_path %>
      <% end %>
    </nav>

    <main>
      <%= content_for?(:content) ? yield(:content) : yield %>
    </main>
  </body>
</html
```

This allows the application controller to be used normally with `yield` or it can be a parent layout if `content_for(:content)` is used in a nested layout.

We now have two separate `<nav>` tags so we need to update the selector for our existing CSS so it doesn't conflict.

> Add the the `.navbar` class to these selectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do this, add the the `.navbar` class to these selectors.
```

```ruby#2
namespace :settings do
  resource :account, only: [ :show, :destroy ]
  resource :password, only: [ :show, :update ]
  resource :profile, only: [ :show, :update ]

  root to: redirect("/settings/profile")
end
```

To handle these new routes, create `app/controllers/settings/accounts_controller.rb` and add the following:

```ruby
class Settings::AccountsController < Settings::BaseController
  def show
  end

  def destroy
    terminate_session
    Current.user.destroy
    redirect_to root_path, notice: "Your account has been deleted."
  end
end
```

The controller for deleting accounts is pretty straightforward. We have a `show` action to display the page and a `destroy` action to logout and delete the user. It also inherits from `Settings::BaseController` so it will use the settings layout like the others.

Now let's add the view at `app/views/settings/accounts/show.html.erb` with the following:

```erb
<h1>Account</h1>

<%= button_to "Delete my account", settings_account_path, method: :delete, data: {turbo_confirm: "Are you sure? This cannot be undone."} %>
```

> And finally, we'll add a link to account in the setting layout's sidebar.

Reviewer: Should this be: a link to "Account" or "account"?

```erb#7
<%= content_for :content do %>
  <section class="settings">
    <nav>
      <h4>Account Settings</h4>
      <%= link_to "Profile", settings_profile_path %>
      <%= link_to "Password", settings_password_path %>
      <%= link_to "Account", settings_account_path %>
    </nav>

    <div>
      <%= yield %>
    </div>
  </section>
<% end %>

<%= render template: "layouts/application" %>
```

That's it! You can now delete your account.

Updating Email Addresses
------------------------

Occassionally, users need to change the email address on their account. To do this safely, we need to store the new email address and send an email to confirm the change.

### Adding Unconfirmed Email To Users

We'll start by adding a new field to the users table in our database. This will store the new email address while we're waiting for confirmation.

```bash
$ rails g migration AddUnconfirmedEmailToUsers unconfirmed_email:string
```

Then migrate the database.

```bash
$ rails db:migrate
```

### Email Routes & Controller

Next we can add a route under the `:settings` namespace in `config/routes.rb`

> ```ruby#2

Author: ```suggestion
```ruby#3
```

### New Email Confirmation

Let's use the mailer generator to create the `UserMailer` we referenced in `Settings::EmailsController`:

```bash
$ rails generate mailer User email_confirmation
      create  app/mailers/user_mailer.rb
      invoke  erb
      create    app/views/user_mailer
      create    app/views/user_mailer/email_confirmation.text.erb
      create    app/views/user_mailer/email_confirmation.html.erb
      invoke  test_unit
      create    test/mailers/user_mailer_test.rb
      create    test/mailers/previews/user_mailer_preview.rb
```

We'll need to generate a token to include in the email body. Open `app/models/user.rb` and add the following:

```ruby#9-15
class User < ApplicationRecord
  has_secure_password
  has_many :sessions, dependent: :destroy

  normalizes :email_address, with: ->(e) { e.strip.downcase }

  validates :first_name, :last_name, presence: true

  generates_token_for :email_confirmation, expires_in: 7.days do
    unconfirmed_email
  end

  def confirm_email
    update(email_address: unconfirmed_email, unconfirmed_email: nil)
  end

  def full_name
    "#{first_name} #{last_name}"
  end
end
```

> This adds a token generator we can use for email confirmations. It encodes the unconfirmed email in the token so the token expires if the unconfirmed email changes or the expiration date lapses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This adds a token generator we can use for email confirmations. The token encodes the unconfirmed email, so it becomes invalid if the email changes or the token expires.
```

  end
end
```

We want to confirm the email address whether the user is authenticated or not, so this controller allows unauthenticated access. Then we use the `find_by_token_for` method to validate the token and look up the matching `User` record. If successful, we update the user's email and reset `unconfirmed_email` to `nil` with the `confirm_email` method we added earlier. If the token isn't valid, the `user` variable will be `nil` so we can display an alert message in that case.

Separating Admins & Users
-------------------------

Now that anyone can sign up for an account on our store, we need to differentiate between regular users and admins.

### Adding An Admin Flag

We'll start by adding a column to the User model.

```bash
$ rails g migration AddAdminToUsers admin:boolean
```

Then migrate the database.

```bash
$ rails db:migrate
```

A `User` with `admin` set to `true` should be able to add and remove products and access other administrative areas of the store.

### Readonly Attributes

We need to be very careful that `admin` is not editable by any malicious users. This is easy enough by keeping the `:admin` attribute out of any permitted parameters list.

> Optionally,we can mark the admin attribute as readonly for added security. This will tell Rails to raise an error anytime the admin attribute is changed. It can still be set when creating a record, but provides an additional layer of security. You may want to skip this if you'll be changing the admin flag for users often but in our e-commerce store it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optionally, we can mark the admin attribute as readonly for added security. This will tell Rails to raise an error anytime the admin attribute is changed. It can still be set when creating a record, but provides an additional layer of security against unauthorized changes. You may want to skip this if you'll be changing the admin flag for users often but in our e-commerce store, it's a useful safeguard.
```

We can add `attr_readonly` in our model to protect the attribute from updates.

```ruby#5
class User < ApplicationRecord
  has_secure_password
  has_many :sessions, dependent: :destroy

  attr_readonly :admin

  # ...
```

> When admin is readonly, we have to directly update this in the database instead of using ActiveRecord.

Reviewer: ActiveRecord or Active Record?

Starting with `app/views/products/index.html.erb`, let's remove the link to "New product". We'll use the Settings area to create new products instead.

```diff
-<%= link_to "New product", new_product_path if authenticated? %>
```

Remove the Edit and Delete links in `app/views/products/show.html.erb`

```diff
-    <% if authenticated? %>
-      <%= link_to "Edit", edit_product_path(@product) %>
-      <%= button_to "Delete", @product, method: :delete, data: { turbo_confirm: "Are you sure?" } %>
-    <% end %>
```

Then remove:
- `app/views/products/new.html.erb`
- `app/views/products/edit.html.erb`
- `app/views/products/_form.html.erb`

These views will be recreated in the settings namespace with some small adjustments.

### Admin Products CRUD

First, let's add the namespaced route for products to `config/routes.rb`:

```ruby#7
  namespace :settings do
    resource :profile, only: [ :show, :update ]
    resource :password, only: [ :show, :update ]
    resource :email, only: [ :show, :update ]
    resource :account, only: [ :show, :destroy ]

    resources :products
    resources :users

    root to: redirect("/settings/profile")
  end
```

> Then to the settings layout sidebar navigation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And then update the settings layout sidebar navigation:
```

```

Great! Now, let's deploy this to production.

Deploying To Production
-----------------------

Since we previously setup Kamal in the [Getting Started Guide](getting_started.html#deploying-to-production), we just need to push our code changes to our Git repository and run:

```bash
$ bin/kamal deploy
```

This will build a new container for our application and deploy it to our production server.

### Setting Admins In Production

If you added `attr_readonly :admin`, you'll need to use the dbconsole to update your account.

```bash
$ bin/kamal dbc
UPDATE users SET admin=true WHERE users.email='you@example.org';
.quit
```

Otherwise, you can use the Rails console to update your account.

```bash
$ bin/kamal console
irb> User.find_by(email: "you@example.org").update(admin: true)
```

You can now access the Store settings in production with your account.

What's Next
-----------

You did it! Your e-commerce store now supports user sign up, account management, and an admin area for managing products and users.

Here are a few ideas to build on to this:

- Add shareable wishlists
- Write more tests to ensure the application works correctly

> - Add payments to buy products

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add payments to buy products

Happy building!
```
